1. Why do you want to work at this organisation?
Top tip: It is one of the most common questions you will come across in an interview but you don’t need to give the same response as everyone else – “it’s a great opportunity” or “there is lots of potential for development”. That will not make you stand out from the crowd.

Really think about why you want to work at the organisation and give meaningful answers. It could be the cause you are passionate about: what part do you want to play in helping the organisation achieve its aims? Or you might have spent some time in a different part of the sector and working in a different area will help you broaden your horizons, bring a different perspective and see how you can apply your expertise to a different setting.

The worst response to that question is something generic – you should know and be confident about why you are applying for a role and sell that during an interview.

Andy Tonner, head of business development, Prospectus

 Polar bears at Hudson's Bay, Canada
Facebook Twitter Pinterest
 People often shy away from explaining how they’ve handled conflict. Photograph: Design Pics Inc/REX
2. When have you had to deal with conflict in your team? What did you do to help resolve the situation?
Top tip: Conflict can make you feel uncomfortable but by preparing a structured example you can answer this question confidently, and convince the panel of your ability to deal with difficult situations. I think this is good advice for interview preparation in general. I think we’ve all left an interview knowing we didn’t give the best example we had.

Karen Beardsell, director of human resources, Stonewall

3. Why are you right for this role? What skills and experience do you have?
Top tip: This is a really open question but we would be looking for two or three specific pointers with solid examples of where they have made a difference. For example, this could link to our core competencies around accountability, collaborative team-working and effective communication.

Lyn Cameron, head of human resources at Diabetes UK

 Chris Froome celebrates winning the 2015 Tour de France.
Facebook Twitter Pinterest
 Show the range of your abilities when explaining what you’ve done well. Photograph: Mike Egerton/PA
4. Describe a time where you managed a specific challenge and were proud of how you acted
Top tip: This is the time you were most proud of what you were doing – it was probably recognised by many and shows many facets of what makes you good. This is your chance to share that with a potential employer.

Richard Eastmond, senior director, organizational development & human resources, Amnesty International

 A job applicant is interviewed at the Cities Service Oil Company refinery at Lake Charles, Louisiana, circa 1955
Facebook Twitter Pinterest
 Make sure you don’t default to cliches of management style over substance. Photograph: FPG/Getty Images
5. Tell us about successful and significant organisational change that you’ve led. How did you lead staff through this change?
Advertisement

Top tip: In many leadership roles your ability to lead and gain buy-in to change is a highly sought-after skill, so explain how you’ve led change, secured commitment from key stakeholders and arrived at a desirable result. What was the situation and why was change needed? If you spotted the need for change and began the process then you should say so – it’s important to show how you’ve taken the lead. Then describe the steps you took to plan what needed to be done, the key people you needed to influence and involve and what aspects of the change were structural or cultural. Finally, explain what changed to demonstrate the efficacy of the process.

Jenny Berry, director of leadership development, Acevo, and Philippa Fabry, director, not-for-profit practice, Peridot Partners

6. Tell us about a time when you were involved in the decision-making process that, without your intervention, a project might have failed or had a less good result?
Top tip: This gives you the opportunity to talk through a solid example of not only decision making, but also to explain how to involve others in making that decision. Lyn Cameron, head of human resources at Diabetes UK

7. How have you encouraged your team to achieve results – and how have you addressed under-performance?
Top tip: Too often people address this by describing their management style: “people know I’m approachable with an open-door policy”. This does not answer the question. Show how you have used effective performance management to address issues and showed staff how they can contribute to organisational objectives.

People often shy away from explaining how they’ve addressed underperformance, not wanting to acknowledge that problems exist within their team. But this is an ideal opportunity to show how you’ve turned it around, or re-deployed someone into a role more suited to their skills, motivation and abilities.

If you’ve done 360-degree feedback, share with the interview panel what people have said about your leadership style.
